# Information Transfer + Cell sampling 
$$\newcommand{\cT}{\mathcal{T}} \newcommand{\E}{\mathbb{E}} \newcommand{\bU}{\mathbf{U}} \newcommand{\bW}{\mathbf{W}} \newcommand{\bS}{\mathbf{S}} \newcommand{\bQ}{\mathbf{Q}} \newcommand{\expectation}{\frac{\log p}{\log (wt_u/\log p)}} \newcommand{\bY}{\mathbf{Y}}$$- [x] Check if this problem is already solved.  

>[!DSP]   Polynomial evaluation
**Data:**  $(a_1, \dots , a_n)$ representing the polynomial $p(x) = (x-a_1)\dots (x-a_n)$ over the field $\F_p$ where $p = \Omega(n^2)$.
**Updates:**  the update $(i,b)$ replaces the $i$th root $a_i$ with $b$ changing the polynomial to $(x-a_1) \dots (x- a_{i-1})(x-b)(x-a_{i+1})\dots (x-a_n)$
**Queiries:** query $a \in \F_p$  outputs $p(a)$. 

### Time-tree

let $k = \log n$. 
We impose a tree structure on the time $[n/k]$ (assume $n/k$ is a power of 2).
We call this the time-tree $\cT$ where the leaves from left to right are labelled by the time points in $[n/k]$. 

Corresponding to each leaf $i$ of $\cT$, we associate a set of locations $A_i = [ki, k(i+1)]$  for $i \in [n/k]$.

At each time step $i \in [n/k]$, 
- we make a random query  $a_i$ in $\F_p$ followed by 
- the updates to the roots at the locations given by $A_i$ with random elements of the field $u_{i,1}, \dots , u_{i,k}$.  

Let $(q_1, \dots , q_{n/k})$ be the random queries and
$(i,u_{i,j})$ for $i \in [n/k]$ and $j \in [k]$ be the updates. 

For each internal node $v$ in the time-tree $\cT$, define 

Let $S_v$ to be the set of memory locations, which are written in the left sub-tree before they are read by queries in the right sub-tree. 

Let $U  =  \{u_{i,j}: i \in [n/k], j \in [k]\}$, 
- $U_v$ be the updates in the left sub-tree. 
- $Q_v$ be the queries in the right sub-tree. 

>[!lemma] 
> For all nodes, $v \in \cT$, 
> $$\E_{\bQ_v, \bU_v}[|\bS_v|] = \Omega(\ell_v \cdot \expectation)$$

- Suppose there exists a node $v$ such that 
 $$\E_{\bQ_v, {\bU}_v}[|{\bS}_v|] = \epsilon \cdot \ell_v \cdot \expectation,$$ for $\epsilon = o(1)$.  
- Then we will be able to encode $\F_p^{k\ell_v}$ using $o(k\ell_v \log p)$ bits.  

### Encoding

Given a random  ${\bU}_v \in \F_p^{k\ell_v}$, make these updates in the left sub-tree.
- Let $\bf W_v$ be the set of locations written during the updates $\bU_v$ in the left sub-tree. 
- Let $\bS_v$ be  the set of locations read from the right sub-tree which at the time of reading were last written in the left sub-tree. 


By Markov's inequality, the above claim implies that, 
$\Pr_{\bU_v}\left [ \E_{\bQ_v}[|\bS_v|] \geq 2\epsilon \ell_v\expectation \right] \leq \frac12$

- Let Good be the set of updates $U_v$ such that $\E_{\bQ_v}[|S_v(U_v)|] \leq 2 \epsilon \ell_v\expectation$. For the inequality, we have $\Pr[\rm Good] \geq 1/2$. 
- For each Good update, another Markov will tell us that $1 - 4\epsilon$ fraction of the queries $Q_v$ are answered correctly by probing at most $t = \ell_v \expectation$ many locations from $\bW_v$.    
- Now we sample a subset of cells $\bY$ by picking each cell from $\bW_v$ independently with probability $p$ 

- What is the probability that all the $t$ cells involved in answering answering all the $\ell_v$ queries from $\bQ_v$ is equal to $p^t$. 
 - [x] What is an upper bound on size of  $\bW_v$? 
       $k \ell_v \log n  \expectation$, (this is slightly relaxed as we dropped the log factors). 

- [ ] What is the probability that $t$ locations of $\bW_v$ answer the $n$ queries 
- $\binom{k \ell_v \log n \expectation}{t}$  = $\binom{k \ell_v \log n \expectation}{\ell_v \expectation}$ $\leq (k \log n)^{t} \cdot p^t$ = $(pk \log n)^t$


Collect the set  of indices and encode the locations of  and their contents before the right-tree of .

This takes $|S_v|(\log n + w)$ bits.  

### Decoding  

