- [x] Check if it is $\Omega(\log^2n)$ or $\Omega(\log^{1.5}n)$ 
      Larsen in 2012, in The Cell Probe Complexity of Dynamic Range Counting prove $t_q = \Omega(\frac{\log n}{\log wt_u})^2$ lower bound. 
- [x] Check if the does this for Polynomial evaluation in the same paper.
      He does this in his subsequent paper form the same year 2012 titled Higher cell probe lower bounds for Polynomial evaluation. 
- [x] What static lower-bound does he prove for polynomial evaulation in "Higher cell probe lower bounds for Polynomial evaluation".?
	- Shows a lb of $\Omega(\frac{\log \mathbb{|F|}}{\log (Sw/n\log \mathbb{|F|}) })$
    - Improves on Miltersen's lower bound [TCS'95] of $\Omega(\log \mathbb{F}/\log S)$ for polynomial evaluation.
    - Improves Patrascu, Thorup's [SICOMP'10] previous best lower bound of $\Omega(\log/\log \log d)$ under some regimes.   
	- [ ] What is the problem for which Patrascu, Thorup proved this bound?
      
>[!idea] **Idea:**
>- Right now, we do a bunch of updates followed by a query and expect to "uniquely" decode the data points from the data some encoding (may be using some side information). 
>- Can we relax this and day we only expect to decrease the search space and then we go again make another sequence of updates and queries to further prune the space. 
>- May be we can do this for a few steps.    

- [x] What technique does he use to prove this?
    Small modification of the Cell Sampling technique. 
    - [ ] what is this small modification?  

$\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}$
### Proof of Larsen for Polynomial evaluation. 

- [x] The hard distribution: Updates values the roots of the polynomial. How are they doing this? Understand.
  - The representation of the polynomials they are with is the roots. The Field is assumed to be algebraically closed. 
  - $P(x) = (x-r_1) (x-a_2) \dots (x-r_n)$, then the representation of the polynomial is $(r_1, \dots , r_n)$.
  The update given an $i \in [n]$ and $y \in \F$, replaces the $i^{th}$ root $r_i$ with y.
  - [ ]  The representation of a polynomial is not unique. It is up-to permutation of the roots. Is that problematic?


Updates : $\bf X = x_1, \dots, x_n$   

- $D({\bf X})$ = Memory locations written during the updates $X$.
- $D_i({\bf X})$ = Memory locations written by updates in epoch $i$ which were not re-written in epochs $j >i$. 
- $\F$ is partitioned in $|\F|^{1/4}$ parts  $\F_j$ for $j \in [|\F|^{1/4}]$, $|\F_j| = |\F|^{3/4}$.
- $t_i({\bf X},{\bf q})$ = number of cells in $D_i({\bf X})$ probed by $\bf q$. 
- $G^{C_i^*}_{j^*}({\bf X})$ =  Subset of queries from $\F_j^*$ that do not err on input $\bf X$. 
  The query algorithm does not probe any cells in $D_{i*}({\bf X}) \setminus C_{i^*}$ while answering queries from $\F_{j^*}$.


- Existence of a set of cells $C_{i^*}$ and a set of Queries $G^{C_{i^*}}_{j^*}({\bf X})$ satisfying Lemma 3. 

- [x] Why do we need to send the addresses of the queries in the encoding?
We are not doing the error correcting based on distance sort of approach here. We are assuming that the datum is uniquely by a small number of queries (like polynomial evaluation). 

- [x] Go over larsen's video 4 and see how decodes for Polynomial evaluation. Is it by Reed-solomon decoding or by specifying some set of queries?
  Runs all the queries on the Posterior induced memory state. Compares the answers computed with all the polynomials and outputs the polynomial which agrees with it the most. 
  So it is not doing the business of sending the addresses of the Queries.  

$\newcommand{\E}{\mathbb{E}}$
### Lemmas:

>[!lemma] Lemma 2
> If $\beta = (t_u w)^2$, $\E[t_i(X,q)] = \Omega(\frac{\log |\F|}{\log (wt_u/\log \F)})$  for all epochs $i$. 


>[!lemma] Lemma 3
> Let $i^*$ be an epoch for which $\E[t_{i^*}(X,q)] = o(\frac{\log |\F|}{\log wt_u/\log \F})$.
> Partition $\F$ into consecutive groups  $\F_1, \dots , \F_{|F|^{1/4}}$ each of size $|\F|^{3/4}$.   
> Then there is a choice of $j^*$ such that with probability at least $1/2$ over the choice of $X$. 
> There exists a $C_{i^*} \subseteq D_{i^*}(X)$ such that the following holds, 
> - all updates $x_1, \dots ,x_n$ are unique
> - $|C_{i^*}| \leq 1/25 \cdot \beta^{i^*} \log |\F|/w$.   
> - Denote $G_{j^*}^{C_{i^*}}(X)$ denote the set of queries from $\F_{j^*}$ that do not err on input $X$.
>   The query algorithm probes no cell in $D^{i*} \setminus C_{i^*}$ when answering queries in $G_{j^*}^{C_{i_*}}$ after updates from $X$. $|G_{j^*}^{C_{i^*}}| = \F^{74/100 - o(1)} \geq n+1$. 
> 


- [ ] why is $\beta$ chosen to be $(wt_u)^2$ and not $wt_u$?
- Do not know exactly why, but it is to enable cell sampling.  

### Larsen's Encoding:

- 