# Why Chronogram technique naturalizes

- [ ] Setup the Notation. 
- [ ] Define the property $P_{chronogram}$. 
- [ ] Show that random table has this property w.h.p. 
- [ ] Show that property can be computed in polynomial time in the size of the table. 
- [ ] Show that Prefix-sum has the property and the Identity table does not have the property. 

**Frame:**
- Rows(queries): $i \in [n]$
- Columns(data): $A \in \{0,1\}^n$ 
- Edges(updates): $\{(x,x+e_i)| x \in {\rm data\ and\ } i \in [n]\}$  

**Property**:
Let $T$ be a data table with the same frame as Prefix-sum(n). 
- $\beta = t_u w$
- $n_i = \frac{n}{\beta^i}$, 
- $K = \log_\beta n$, 
- $X_i = \{j\beta^i: j \in [n_i]\}$

for all $i \in [K]$, 
for all sub-cubes $C_i$ of dimension $n_i$ with $X_i$ as free coordinates,
$T(C_i)$ form $(n\epsilon, 2^{-n_i\epsilon})$ list decodable code.  


- Prefix-sum(n) has this property
  The list decoding algo gives bound on the list-size. 
- Random table with same frame as prefix sum satisfies this property with prob $2^{-O(n)}$
	- [ ]   Compute the probability. 
- The property can be checked in poly-time.
- Property is all that in needed to prove the chronogram lower bound of $\Omega(\log_{\beta} n)$.  
## Notation  

**Frame:**
- Rows(queries): $i \in [n]$
- Columns(data): $A \in \{0,1\}^n$ 
- Edges(updates): $\{(x,x+e_i)| x \in {\rm data\ and\ } i \in [n]\}$  

**Updates:** 
- In the $i$th epoch, we do $n_i = n/\beta^i$ random updates at coordinates given by $C_i \subseteq [n]$.  
	$C_i = \{j \beta^i: j \in [n_i]\}$ $\beta = t_u w$.
	$A[C_i]$ is the array restricted to the coordinates $C_i$.
	Note that $C_j \subset C_i$ if $j > i$.   
- random query $\bf q(U)$, 

Data Structure problem = T. 

Suppose there exists a $(s,w,t_q,t_u)$-solution for $T$.
- Start at an arbitrary column $A_0$.
- Perform updates $U = U_1, \dots , U_{\log_\beta n}$.
- Let $A_i$ be the datapoint(column) you end at after the epoch $i$.
- $S_{>i}$ = the set of cells of the updated after epoch $i$ .     
- Partition the storage $S = [s]$ into $K+1$ parts depending on the epoch in which their last write happened by $U$.
	$S = S_0 \cup \dots \cup S_K$.
- Make a random query $\bf q$.Let $S(q)$ be the locations read by $\bf q$.  
- **Lemma**: for all $i \in [K]$,  ${\mathbb E}_{U,q}[|S(q,U) \cap S_i(U)|] = \Omega(1)$ .   


##### Proof of the Lemma:
- Suppose $\exists i \in [K]$ such that ${\mathbb E}_{U,q}[|S(q,U) \cap S_i(U)|] = \epsilon = o(1)$.
- **Claim:** We will be able to get an encoding of $\{0,1\}^{n_i}$ using $o(n_i)$ bits.

**Encoding**:
- Let $\sigma \in \{0,1\}^{n_i}$. 
- Fix an arbitrary choice of $U_{<i}$ and $U_{>i}$  and let $U_i = \sigma$.
  Since ${\mathbb E}_{U,q}[|S(q,U) \cap S_i(U)|] = \epsilon = o(1)$, we can condition on some setting of $U_{<i}$ and $U_{>i}$ and still have 
  ${\mathbb E}_{U_i,q}[|S(q,U_i) \cap S_i(U_i)|] = \epsilon = o(1)$. 
- Enc($\sigma$) = addresses and contents of $S_{>i}$. 
  encoding length = $\sum_{j > i}^K n_i \cdot t_u \cdot w = nt_u w \sum_{j>i}^K \frac1{\beta^j} \leq nt_u w \frac{1- 1/\beta}{\beta^{i+1}} < \frac{n} {10\beta^i} = \frac{n_i}{10}$. 

**Decoding**:
- Let $M$ be the memory state after starting from $A_0$ and making updates $U$.
- Let $M_i$ be the memory state after the updates $U_1, \dots , U_{i-1}$, this is know to us.
- Modify $M_i$ according to the locations and contents given by $Enc(\sigma)$ to get $M'$. $M'$ is an approximation of $M$.
- $M$ and $M'$ may differ only on $S_i$.
- Simulate all the queries on the memory state to get $A_K'$.
- ${\mathbb E}_{U,q}[|S(q,U) \cap S_i(U)|] = \epsilon = o(1)$, this means at most $1-\epsilon$ fraction of the queries do not read from $S_i$ and hence on these coordinates $A_K$ and $A_K'$ agree. 
- $A_K'$ and $A_K$ differ on at-most $\epsilon n$ coordinates. 
- If the column space has distance $2\epsilon n$, there is a unique column which is at a distance less than $\epsilon n$ from $A_K'$.  
>[!def] **The Property**:
 For every sub-cube $C$ of dimension $n/\beta$, the minimum distance of the code formed by the columns $C$ is at-most $2\epsilon$ 

- $T(C)$, the code formed by the columns of $T(C)$ has distance at-most $2\epsilon n$.  

**Random code has this property**:

The prob. that distance between two codewords is at-most $2\epsilon n$ $\leq \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{2\epsilon n}\binom{n}{i}}{2^n}$ = $\frac{2^{H(\epsilon) n}}{2^{n}}$ = $\frac{1}{2^{\Omega(n)}}$. 

Prob that there exists two code-words with distance less than $2\epsilon n$ $\leq 2^{2n_1}\cdot \frac{1}{2^{O(n)}}$. 

So, random code with $2^{n_1}$ cod-words and block length $n$ has distance $\geq \epsilon n$ with prob $\geq 1-\frac{1}{2^{O(q)}}$. 

**Property can be computed in polynomial time**:

The time required to compute the property is $O(\binom{n}{n_1}2^{2n_1} n)$ = $2^{O(n)}$. 

**Prefix-sum has the property** and the Identity table does not have the property. 

- Minimum distance of the Prefix-sum code is $1$. 
Q: What is the list decoding size of the Prefix-sum code at a distance $\delta$? 
A: We have an algorithm which takes as input an arbitrary string from $\{0,1\}^n$ and outputs all the code words at a distance $\epsilon n$ from it. This gives bound on the list size of $2^{H(\epsilon)n_i}$. 
