

## Chronogram + Cell sampling + Peak to Average

$$\newcommand{\cQ}{\mathcal Q} \newcommand{\cP}{\mathcal P} \newcommand{\cD}{\mathcal{D}} \newcommand{\E}{\mathbb E}$$
### Super-logarithmic lower bounds for Dynamic  graph problems.	

- $t_ q =\Omega(\frac{\log^{1.5} n}{\log^2 t_u w})$ for Dynamic Reachability on $n$ vertex graphs. 

>[!thm] Theorem informal
> $(S,w,t_q,t_u)$ data structure for ${\rm Reachability}_n$ where  $S = n^{O(1)}$ and $w = O(\log n)$ $\implies$ $t_q = \Omega(\frac{\log^{1.5}n}{\log^2 t_uw})$.

##### Proof idea

- [x] Butterfly graph $(B,d)$
- [x] 0-XOR in one Butterfly
- [x] 0-XOR in multiple Butterflies 

- [x] Reduction from reachability to 0-XOR in Multiple Butterflies

-  **Chronogram step** to go from Dynamic DS to Static DS with pre-initialized memory and cache. (Lemma 5)

$(S,w,t_q,t_u)$ $\to$ $(S,w,S_{cac},t_{tot},t)$ where $t_{tot} = O(t_q)$, $t = O(t_q/ \log t_uw$) 

- **Simulation**: getting a  protocol from the One way communication game. (Theorem 2)
	-  Peak-to-Average lemma  

- Set up the right communication game,
	- Tensored game.  Meta Query Communication Game.  
	- Use simulation to get a protocol with good advantage. (Lemma 6)
	- Show protocol has large advantage. (Lemma 8)


How to connect the list decoding $k$-wise independent picture with the One-way discrepancy.  

- Weighted Data Structure Problem. 
	- [ ] Why move to a weighted version? 

- Discrepancy bound for one-way communication.   
  k-wise independence , moments. 
   
- The problems is hard for Randomized one-way communication.  

---
###  One way communication problem
- Let $\cP$ be a data structure problem. 
- Alice gets a datapoint according to some distribution $\cD_I$.
- Bob get a query according to some distribution $\cD_Q$. ^[Write up on github swithces ALice's and Bob's input.] 

- Advantage: 
  $$\E_{Q,M_A} {\huge[} \left|\E_{I} {\big [}\cP(Q,I)|M_A {\big ]} \right| \huge]$$
Advantage of the one-way randomized communication protocol. 
---
- Simulation
- [ ] Explain the choice of parameters(B) in the Butterfly graph. ($B = (dt_uw)^{12}$)


- Lower bound for 0-XOR in Multiple Butterflies 
	- **Chronogram step**: Dynamic to Static reduction	  
	  0-XOR in Multiple Butterflies to 0-XOR in one Butterfly.
	  Static Data Structure with pre-initialization and cache. 
	  - [ ] what does pre-initiliaztion correspond to ? is it epochs before the $i$th epoch. (larger epochs)
	  - [ ] what does cache correspond to? Is it epochs after the $i$th epochs (smaller epochs)
	- Static lower bound for 0-XOR in one Butterfly.
		- Meta Queries
		- No Protocol has large advantage
		- Simulation theorem



>[!thm] Theorem 2
 $${\rm Adv}(G_p,\cD_Q,\cD_I,(8pS + S_{cac}).w) \geq 2^{-O(\sqrt{t_{tot}t_q})}$$


- [ ] What is the Property? 

- [x] What is Decomposability?
- The updates happen in $k$ epochs 
- for each $i \in [k]$, updates in the $i$th epoch $U_i$, can be recovered from the $U_1, \dots , U_{i-1}$ , $U_{i+1}, \dots , U_{k}$ and the queiries.  


### Crossing the logarithmic barrier for dynamic Boolean data structure lower bounds

- $t_q = \Omega(\frac{\log^{1.5} n}{\log^2 t_u w})$ for Range Parity and 
- $t_q = \Omega(\frac{\log^{1.5} n}{\log^3 t_uw})$ for range Parity over Butterfly graphs.


#### Lower bound shown: 
- $t_q = \Omega(\frac{\log^{1.5} n}{\log^3 t_uw})$ for range Parity over Butterfly graphs.
- Butterfly graphs 
- range parity on Butterfly graphs. 
- upper bound for this problem. 
- connections to reachability. 
- frame

Connect to Chronogram + Cell sampling.  
small answer 



Chronogram: 
- Dynamic Data Structure for Multiple-Butterflies to "Static Data Structure" for Single Butterfly. 
- Static data structure with a pre-initialized memory and cache. 

One-way communication  and Advantage
- Static DS to One-way protocol with  advantage.
	- Cell sampling
	- Peak to Average lemma
 - No protocol has large advantage. 
 - k-wise independence 

#### Question
- [ ] Connection between k-wise independence property and discrepancy? 
- [ ] Finish the task which Bruno gave. 
   
- [x] How is the function on which Peak-to-average is applied defined. 

- [ ] Proof of peak to average. 


- [x] How is Public randomness useful in subsampling the coordinates $Y$?  
	Alice and Bob use public randomness to sample a set of cells $C_1$. 
	Alice send which of these sampled cells lie in the ith epoch and send their contents aswell.  

