based on the papers
- Higher cell probe lower bounds for evaluating polynomials. 
- The cell probe complexity of Dynamic range counting.

- both these papers from 2012 use Chronogram + Cell Sampling for proving a $\Omega(\left(\frac{\log n}{\log \log n}\right)^2)$ lower bound on $\min(t_q,t_u)$ for Dynamic Polynomial evaluation and Dynamic 2D-Range Counting. 

- Query output is non-boolean. 

- [ ] what is the frame of the tables.

- [[Problems/Data_Structures/Both/Polynomial Evaluation#^f14250\|Dynamic Poynomial Evaluation]] $PE_{n,q}$
- But here, the polynomials are represented by the roots. 
  
>[!DSP] Dynamic 2D Range Counting 
>- **Data**: maintain a collection of 2D points which are assigned weights in a box.  
>- **Queries**: $(x,y)$ outputs sum of weights of all points dominated by $(x,y)$. 
>- **Updates**: insert a point $(x,y)$ with weight $w_{x,y}$ into our collection. 

- [ ] Patrascu's lower bound for 2D range queries is also covered. Update that. 
- [ ] Understand what Larsen means by a Non-deterministic communication game in the section 2 while refering to Patrascu's proof.  

- Patrascu 2007 showed a lower bound of $\Omega((\frac{\log n}{\log wt_u})^2)$ for dynamic weighted range counting only for weights which are $\log^{2+\Omega(1)} n$-bis by t integers. 


LB Technique: 
- let $\beta = (t_u w)^2$, $k = \log_\beta n$ 
- Make updates $U = U_1, \dots , U_k$ in epochs
  where the number of updates in the $i$th epoch is $n_i = \frac{n}{\beta^i}$,
- Show that any data structure must read $\Omega(\log_\beta n)$ cells per epoch on a random query in expectation. 
-   

LB Property: 